# Pull Requests

There are two fundamental components of the Pull Request process: one concrete
and technical, and one more process oriented. The concrete and technical
component involves the specific details of setting up your local environment
so that you can make the actual changes. This is where we will start.

* [Setting up your local environment](#setting-up-your-local-environment)
  * [Step 1: Fork](#step-1-fork)
  * [Step 2: Branch](#step-2-branch)
* [The Process of Making Changes](#the-process-of-making-changes)
  * [Step 3: Code](#step-3-code)
  * [Step 4: Commit](#step-4-commit)
    * [Commit message guidelines](#commit-message-guidelines)
  * [Step 5: Rebase](#step-5-rebase)
  * [Step 6: Test](#step-6-test)
  * [Step 7: Push](#step-7-push)
  * [Step 8: Opening the Pull Request](#step-8-opening-the-pull-request)
  * [Step 9: Discuss and Update](#step-9-discuss-and-update)
    
## Setting up your local environment

To get started, you will need to have `git` installed locally. Depending on
your operating system, there are also a number of other dependencies required.

Once you have `git` and are sure you have all of the necessary dependencies,
it's time to create a fork.

### Step 1: Fork

Fork the project [on GitHub](https://github.com/Saransh99/RoxFoxOpenMovieAPI) and clone your fork
locally.

```text
$ git clone git@github.com:username/node.git
$ cd node
$ git remote add upstream https://github.com/Saransh99/RoxFoxOpenMovieAPI.git
$ git fetch upstream
```

It is recommended to configure `git` so that it knows who you are:

```text
$ git config user.name "J. Random User"
$ git config user.email "j.random.user@example.com"
```

You can use any name/email address you prefer here. We only use the
metadata generated by `git` using this configuration for properly attributing
your changes to you in the `AUTHORS` file and the changelog.

If you would like for the Github UI to link the commit to your account
and award you the `Contributor` label after the changes have been merged,
make sure this local email is also added to your
[GitHub email list](https://github.com/settings/emails).

### Step 2: Branch

As a best practice to keep your development environment as organized as
possible, create local branches to work within. These should also be created
directly off of the `master` branch.

```text
$ git checkout -b my-branch -t upstream/master
```

## The Process of Making Changes

### Step 3: Code

The vast majority of Pull Requests opened against the `Saransh99/RoxFoxOpenMovieAPI`
repository includes changes to one or more of the following:

- the routes code contained in the `routes` directory
- the models code contained in the `models` directory
- the middleware code contained in the `middleware` directory
- the app startup code contained in the `startup` directory
- the documentation in `doc` directory
- tests within the `test` directory.

### Step 4: Commit

It is a recommended best practice to keep your changes as logically grouped
as possible within individual commits. There is no limit to the number of
commits any single Pull Request may have, and many contributors find it easier
to review changes that are split across multiple commits.

```text
$ git add my/changed/files
$ git commit
```

Note that multiple commits often get squashed when they are landed 
#### Commit message guidelines

A good commit message should describe what changed and why.

1. The first line should:
   - contain a short description of the change (preferably 50 characters or
     less, and no more than 72 characters)
   - be entirely in lowercase with the exception of proper nouns, acronyms, and
   the words that refer to code, like function/variable names
   - be prefixed with the name of the changed subsystem and start with an
   imperative verb. Check the output of `git log --oneline files/you/changed` to
   find out what subsystems your changes touch.
n async_wrap.h`

2. Keep the second line blank.
3. Wrap all other lines at 72 columns (except for long URLs).


4. If your commit introduces a breaking change (`semver-major`), it should
contain an explanation about the reason of the breaking change, which
situation would trigger the breaking change and what is the exact change.

Sample complete commit message:

```txt
subsystem: explain the commit in one line

Body of commit message is a few lines of text, explaining things
in more detail, possibly giving some background about the issue
being fixed, etc.

The body of the commit message can be several paragraphs, and
please do proper word-wrap and keep columns shorter than about
72 characters or so. That way, `git log` will show things
nicely even when it is indented.

```

### Step 5: Rebase

As a best practice, once you have committed your changes, it is a good idea
to use `git rebase` (not `git merge`) to synchronize your work with the main
repository.

```text
$ git fetch upstream
$ git rebase upstream/master
```

This ensures that your working branch has the latest changes from `Saransh99/RoxFoxOpenMovieAPI`
master.

### Step 6: Test

Bug fixes and features should always come with tests. The `test` directory within the `Saransh99/RoxFoxOpenMovieAPI` repository is complex and it is
often not clear where a new test file should go. When in doubt, add new tests
to the `test/parallel/` directory and the right location will be sorted out
later.

Before submitting your changes in a Pull Request, always run the full Node.js
test suite. To run the tests (including code linting) on Unix / macOS:

```text
$ ./configure && make -j4 test
```

And on Windows:

```text
> vcbuild test
```

### Step 7: Push

Once you are sure your commits are ready to go, with passing tests and linting,
begin the process of opening a Pull Request by pushing your working branch to
your fork on GitHub.

```text
$ git push origin my-branch
```

### Step 8: Opening the Pull Request

From within GitHub, opening a new Pull Request will present you with a template
that should be filled out:

```markdown
<!--
Thank you for your Pull Request. Please provide a description above and review
the requirements below.

Bug fixes and new features should include tests and possibly benchmarks.

Contributors guide: https://github.com/Saransh99/RoxFoxOpenMovieAPI/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
-->

#### Checklist
<!-- Remove items that do not apply. For completed items, change [ ] to [x]. -->

- [ ] `make -j4 test` (UNIX), or `vcbuild test` (Windows) passes
- [ ] tests and/or benchmarks are included
- [ ] documentation is changed or added
```

### Step 9: Discuss and update

You will probably get feedback or requests for changes to your Pull Request.
This is a big part of the submission process so don't be discouraged! Some
contributors may sign off on the Pull Request right away, others may have
more detailed comments or feedback. This is a necessary part of the process
in order to evaluate whether the changes are correct and necessary.

To make changes to an existing Pull Request, make the changes to your local
branch, add a new commit with those changes, and push those to your fork.
GitHub will automatically update the Pull Request.

```text
$ git add my/changed/files
$ git commit
$ git push origin my-branch
```

It is also frequently necessary to synchronize your Pull Request with other
changes that have landed in `master` by using `git rebase`:

```text
$ git fetch --all
$ git rebase origin/master
$ git push --force-with-lease origin my-branch
```

**Important:** The `git push --force-with-lease` command is one of the few ways
to delete history in `git`. Before you use it, make sure you understand the
risks. If in doubt, you can always ask for guidance in the Pull Request or on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/TMhXqPH) channel.

If you happen to make a mistake in any of your commits, do not worry. You can
amend the last commit (for example if you want to change the commit log).

```text
$ git add any/changed/files
$ git commit --amend
$ git push --force-with-lease origin my-branch
```
